---
title: Looking back...
canonical: http://blog.bhashkar.me/2008/12/looking-back.html
date: "2008-12-19 12:46:00"
categories: [student, past, college, coer, experience]
---
And how much I wish to be faring in the ‘Alumni Speaks’ section in some edition of KNOL, or MUCUR (only if it had one, for that matter) after we finish college. Lookin back…. Sweet aint it?<span class="more"></span> The ride through the time… remembering everything now seems a breeze… but there’ve been mightier times… remember when the POLICE came to make the encroached boundary turn to dust…. Lol… life was so much (jus can’t find the adjective)… or times amongst ourselves… having a Tappi night-out to IIT for THOMSO… things just couldn’t get better, atleast in this gloomy city but things actually are that MAST… all those booze sessions (just 2 be clear I never got that thing down my throat) on-the-rocks in hostels n the coming-up vomit (Yuck that sucks!) but yeah to admit it was all a part of life…. I’ve seen the life of both, that of a ground floor boy, easily the most studious lobby of hostel as well as that of a next-to-top floor guy belonging to the most BAKAR wing of the hostel… yeah enjoyment comes to thou whether or not you seek it there… lovely ;-)…. Momo-wallah out there… not to 4get Royal k parathe (how innumerable times have they proved time n again to be life savers)… then Roorkee trips… Vikram, Bus, Truck, Canter, lift in a car, you name it… almost all of the possible terrestrial modes of transportation have been utilized in making these trips (how much would day-scholars would miss it!)

Things don’t end here… remember how much all of us liked to curse THE DICTATOR?? Not content with makin our life a prison, he could easily go ahead to makin it a living hell had he got his wish… mmmph!!! N same was the story wid the faculty… some of them really cool, other not that much… but wat the hell, the cursing was an inseperable part of their schedule as well…

Then there’s the café, the most happenin point of the college (Las Vegas? Naaaah!)… all of the couples come there to pass their evenings.. Have seen the café as crowded as hell (orientation day or the Zion), n seen it totally deserted (exams days)… innumerable memories there as well… it was easily the dwelling for the committee ppl conducting the fest there… the commotion there…enjoyin the times when the rains struck hard on the café roof, we were in thr… not cosy but definitely, sipping tea in such a weather gives a us a freewheeling attitude, atleast for a matter of seconds.. after all, the prison still is THERE… n of us all inmates, (not talkin of the studious type, those who dare not lift their eyes off the books just for the fear of dropping their grades, or specs, if you might)… humans deserve freedom dude, give it to them…